When you're going traveling, it's especially important to speak up and stay connected with your support
network of trusted people.
None of us can do this alone, especially when we're traveling to new places, stepping outside our
comfort zone and potentially facing new dangers.
It's always good for someone to know where you are at any given time.
At least one person just in case, even if you are a super private person, even if you've secretly
always wanted to be a secret agent, please don't go off gallivanting without telling anyone.
It's not as cool as it sounds, and it can really get you into trouble.
So before you leave on your trip, share your itinerary with someone you trust.
Like maybe that friend, you keep putting down as your emergency contact without telling them you're
going to want to tell them this time.
Make sure your itinerary includes a way to stay in touch with you while you're gone.
However, you'll be most reachable.
Phone number, WhatsApp, social media, email, whatever rings your bell or phone.
Then stay connected both digitally like on social media or texting or apps like Find My Friends and
physically like leaving a note in your hotel room or informing your embassy.
Just in case you ever need to be tracked down.
Imagine how much easier Liam Neeson's rescue would have been if he'd actually had a way to track down
his daughter.
Sure, that would have made him much less exciting movie, but in reality, you really don't want to
be that girl.
I am admittedly a little bit of a worst case scenario thinker, but I figure the more prepared I am
for anything, the more easily I can relax and enjoy myself.
Worry free.
No matter how many human traffickers there may be lurking around, as I always say, the best prevention
is preparation.